This is a recent commit for the new articles (#6)
apitoolkit/apitoolkit-landing: content/blog/API-MODELING-THE-PROCESS-AND-GOAL-/index.md

> ---

Reviewer: Please change the folder name of this article from all caps to small caps or title case

title: "API Modeling - The Process And Goals"
date: 2022-05-20T07:34:16+02:00
description: "What does API Modelin entail, what is the process of API Modeling and what is the goal of API modeling?"
---

> ![API-modeling](./istockphoto-1336160494-170667a.jpg)

Reviewer: Add content attribution

## API Modeling

> API modeling enables us to set up better communication procedures, before going ahead to design our API.  We must be very careful when choosing names for our resources because APIs are permanent. Additionally, it is beneficial to build a shared vocabulary between your product manager and developers, commonly referred to as a ubiquitous language in domain-driven design. Before you choose how to design and construct your API, API modeling provides the answer to the questions of why it exists and what problems it intends to solve.

Reviewer: Are they really permanent?

Reviewer: This paragraph doesn't define what API modelling is, so i'm not sure what it is even after reading this.

> ## The Process Involved in API Modeling

Reviewer: Please don't plagiarize peoples articles. You put us at risk of legal action from any of these companies. 
https://tyk.io/blog/before-you-design-your-api-model-your-api/

Reviewer: If you're getting ideas from any article or website, please add a references section at the bottom of your article and link to those articles there.

1. Identify the audience for your API
Determining who will use your API is the first step in API modeling. Participants, performers, or users are some other names for them. APIs, in contrast to user interfaces, may be utilized both directly by developers and covertly by end users. Understanding the needs of both sides is crucial. The diverse applications and gadgets that could use our API in various ways are another thing we need to take into account. We might want to be a little bit more explicit when identifying those who are active in accessing the API. Instead of just naming developers as participants, we could want to make a distinction between internal developers, operations engineers, and external developers. The same is true for differentiating end users, regular users, account administrators, and system administrators because they all utilize different techniques and expect different results when using your API.

2. Determine the desired outcomes

> More than your expensive databases or the fine method your code was designed, your end customers are interested in the outcomes that your API makes attainable. Your users need answers to question, always remember that they want a problem solved. If you model can't solve the problem then it is an issue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
More than your expensive databases or the fine method your code was designed, your end customers are interested in the outcomes that your API makes attainable. Your users need answers to questions. Always remember that they want a problem solved. If your model can't solve the problem then it is an issue.
```

5. Validate your API model
Validating your API against well-known requirements is the last stage in the modeling process. Your responsibility is to guarantee that your API will satisfy the needs of every user, much like a good quality assurance (QA) team. Verify that your API model can satisfy the indicated demands by using wireframes, user stories, test cases, and other criteria.
Look for missing participants, outcomes, and steps when you validate your APIs. Additionally, you might wish to make a note of APIs that depend on others or that might be heavily used. Even though it's not required, this might help you make certain decisions when you enter the design and development phases.

> ## The Goal of API Modeling

Reviewer: Can you include charts that show an example of such an API model?
